runbook: clarify impact and mitigation for `MimirBlockBuilderPersistentJobFailure` (#15384)
grafana/mimir: docs/sources/mimir/manage/mimir-runbooks/_index.md

- Block-builder-scheduler schedules and assigns jobs to workers, but it is the workers who carry out the consumption work.
- Block-builder-scheduler notices when a worker fails to complete a job, and maintains a failure count on each job.
- Block-builder-scheduler increments the `cortex_blockbuilder_scheduler_persistent_job_failures_total` metric when a job's failure count exceeds the `-block-builder-scheduler.job-failures-allowed` setting.

What is the **impact**:

> - The scheduler retries the job continuously and never gives up on its own. The records in the failing offset range stay absent from object storage until the job succeeds.

Reviewer: nit, did you mean samples?

```suggestion
- The scheduler retries the job continuously and never gives up on its own. The samples in the failing offset range stay absent from object storage until the job succeeds.
```

Author: I did mean records, as in kafka record. I guess sample would work too in this context, but :man_shrugging:

> - If a job fails for longer than ingesters retain and are queried for the affected samples (typically after `-querier.query-ingesters-within`), query results may be missing data from the affected range.

Reviewer 2: This sentence is a bit confusing, I had to read it multiple times to get the gist of it.

Author: You are right. The topic is inherently complicated, but I don't want to get too deep into it. I've simplified it to focus only on the main point of interest for this runbook: [`f9d127a` (this PR)](https://github.com/grafana/mimir/pull/15384/commits/f9d127a8fbdcd2488bb6618004be679ece37e260)

Let me know what you think

Reviewer 2: The revision is much clearer.  👍

- If exactly `-block-builder-scheduler.max-jobs-per-partition` jobs are failing repeatedly for a partition, the partition is effectively stalled. If less, then the partition continues to make progress, but slower than expected.
- The partition's committed Kafka offset cannot advance past a failing job. If the commit lags far behind and the scheduler restarts, it re-schedules jobs covering offset ranges that may have already succeeded, writing duplicate blocks to object storage.

> - If a job fails repeatedly for longer than the Kafka topic retention, the data in the affected range is effectively lost, unless ingesters are configured to also ship blocks, and succeeding.

Reviewer: Is getting Kafka topic retention explained somewhere here, plz link

Author: As discussed offline: we don't currently have details docs about this procedure, in part because it's backend/provider specific. Leaving as is for now.

- Now look at the logs on the assigned worker corresponding with the job ID found previously to understand the nature of the failure.
- If there is no clear failure, check to see if the worker pod was terminated due to an out-of-memory condition. If this is the case, give the block-builder workers more memory.

How to **mitigate**:

> - If in doubt that a job will succeed before the Kafka topic retention, temporarily increasing the retention is a good idea to prevent permanent data loss and buy more time for the investigation and fix. Gaps in queries may still occur during the incident, but at least the data will be safe in Kafka until the issue is resolved.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- If in doubt that a job will succeed before the Kafka topic retention expires, temporarily increasing the retention is a good idea to prevent permanent data loss and buy more time for the investigation and fix. Gaps in queries may still occur during the incident, but at least the data will be retained in Kafka until the issue is resolved.
```
